Windows Minesweeper was first released as part of the Windows Entertainment Pack (WEP) on 8 October 1990. WEP was the first collection of games developed by Microsoft for Windows 3.0 instead of MS-DOS. 
Windows 3.0 debuted on 22 May 1990 and Microsoft decided the new operating system needed some games. Employees were asked to submit programs and "Microsoft Entertainment Pack for Windows" was released on 8 October 1990 with seven games and a screensaver retailing for $39.95. The pack was advertised with the slogan "Now you can use the incredible power of Windows 3.0 to goof off". WEP was so successful Microsoft quickly released three more packs with the original release rebranded "Microsoft Entertainment Pack 1". 
One of the employees who submitted games was Robert Donner. He joined Microsoft in 1989 along with Curt Johnson and the pair wrote several games under the label "Duff Software" in spare time. One game was a 3D version of Tic Tac Toe ("3-D TicTacToe") with the player competing against the computer. Another game was a version of Mine ("Win Mine") with the player using hidden number clues to clear landmines. Donner submitted these two games and both were accepted by "the Product Manager". It is unclear whether this was Bruce Ryan or Charles Fitzgerald. 
The graphics and Help files were cleaned up and Legal renamed the games TicTactics and Minesweeper.1 According to Libby Duzan, the Lead Product Manager for Games during 1992-1994, Minesweeper was included because "it was the favorite game of everybody involved" in creating WEP.
A total of 28 games were released in addition to the IdleWild screensavers. WEP 1 (1990) included Cruel, Golf, IdleWild, Minesweeper, Pegged, Taipei, Tetris and TicTactics. WEP 2 (1991) included Freecell, IdleWild, Jigsawed, Pipe Dream, Rattler's Race, Rodent's Revenge, Stones and Tut's Tomb. WEP 3 (1991) included Fuji Golf, IdleWild, Klotski, Life Genesis, SkiFree, Tetravex, TriPeaks and Wordzap. WEP 4 (1992) included Chess, Chip's Challenge, Dr. Black Jack, Go Figure, Jezzball, Maxwell's Maniac and Tic Tac Drop. 
Minesweeper became so popular it was added to the Windows 3.1 operating system in 1992. A review by COMPUTE! Magazine in August 1991 focused solely on the new Minesweeper game: "Speaking of WEP, it also includes, besides a ho-hum Tetris, the most diabolically addictive game I've seen lately: Minesweeper. If you've got Windows and you have enough cast-iron self-control to get your real work done before you play, then this game is worth the entire price of WEP ($39.95). But be sure to read the instructions--the game 
is almost unplayable unless you learn some tricks, and you can't save games in progress."
The Microsoft employees who contributed games to the Entertainment Pack shared their programs at work using tongue-in-cheek distribution companies. For example, in addition to "Duff Software" another group of programmers released games using the label "Bogus Software". It was also common to make fun of each other and in Chip's Challenge, released as part of WEP 4 in 1992, Chuck Sommerville spelled "Rob D" in the tile arrangement of Level 145.
A separate "Microsoft Entertainment Pack for Windows CE" was released in 1997. This included 10 games: Sink the Ships, Space Defense, Blackjack, Chess, Codebreaker, FreeCell, Hearts, Minesweeper, Reversi and Taipei.
Microsoft later released "The Best of Windows Entertainment Pack" (BOWEP) in 1994 with 13 of the games and in 2001 released a version of BOWEP with seven games for the GameBoy Color that included Minesweeper and TicTactics. Having run out of games developed in-house, Microsoft hired a company in 1995 to develop 10 games for the "Microsoft Entertainment Pack Puzzle Collection" later releasing the Puzzle Collection with six games in 2000 for the GameBoy Color.
Our original Minesweeper game is based off the classic Windows version. Minesweeper was first released by Microsoft in 1990, and every release of Windows since then has had a version of the game.
The history of Minesweeper goes back to the early 80's when many 'mine' games were released for early home computers. The earliest proven digital ancestor of Minesweeper is Mined-Out, which was released for the Sinclair Spectrum in 1983. Board games like Battleship and versions played on paper have been enjoyed for decades before that, and all contributed in their own way to what would ultimately became Minesweeper.
The game evolved over the 1980's into the game we love today. Most of the key features like right-click (to mark a mine) and numbers (showing you adjacent bombs) evolved in the last 2-3 years of the 80's.
This browser based, online version is maintained by the Free Video Games Project and was originally developed by Shep Poor in 2005. Shep's original early Javascript 1.1 version was a masterpiece, and it's a credit to how well it was coded back then that much of that code still works unmodified today. Over the years we have significantly developed and added to the game, to play nicer on modern browsers, and most recently to add capabilities so that it now works on mobile devices and tablets too.
Minesweeper was the ultimate office computer game in the 90's and remains hugely popular to this day. FreeMinesweeper.org is the original and #1 online Minesweeper website, and has served over a billion Minesweeper games since launch in 2010. In 2022 we embarked on a major overhaul to refresh the design, and add necessary support for phones and tablets.
